Assignment 


Q1. What are components of a computer ?
  there are various component of computer are given below 
  RAM
  ROM
  Input /Output
  CPU

Q2. Which CPU are you using in you laptop / mobile / PC ?
 CPU  Intel (R) Core i5-4570T CPU
 mobile octa-core MediaTek Helio G95 processer

Q3. What is size of RAM in your PC ?
     RAM 12GB
Q4. Who created python ? in which year ? where ?
    Desgined by  Guido van Rossum 
    In  Feb 20 1991
    Where  Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI) in the Netherlands

Q5. What are different implementations of Python ? Which implementation we are using ?
 PyPy - Python in Python, includes a tracing JIT compiler.
 Jython - Python in Java for the Java platform.
 IronPython - Python in C# for the Common Language Runtime (CLR/. ...
 GraalPython - Python in Java, using the Graal just-in-time compiler and the Truffle interpreter implementation framework
  we using.
we using Cpython Implementation

 Q7. What is PVM 
 Python Virtual Machine(PVM): The bytecode then goes into the main part of the conversion is the Python Virtual Machine(PVM).
 
 Q8.WAP to Print "Hello IACSD" and write comment describing author of the program and date created?
     print("hello IACSD")
     # author Vivek pawar
     # date 18/09/23

 Q9.  Python is platform independent or not ? Which platforms python can run ?
Yes, python is platform independent. Like we can Run the same code in different platforms without any changes.

Q10.Why python is platform independent ? What makes it platform independent ?
Platform independent refers to software that runs on a variety of operating systems or hardware platforms. It is the opposite of platform dependent, which refers to software that is only to run on one operating system or hardware platform.

Q11. Q11. Find working of various functions (min 7) from math library of python which is provided as standard library. 
https://docs.python.org/3/library/math.html

import math
print(math.factorial(5))
print(math.sqrt(36))
print(math.cbrt(27))
print(math.lcm(15))
print(math.gcd(20, 10))
print(math.comb(60, 10))


Q13. WAP using spyder IDE. Import math library and print the gcd, lcm of two numbers.
import math
a=int(input("Enter the sum"))
n = int (input("Enter the num"))
sum=(math.lcm(n,a))
hum=(math.gcd(n,a))

print("the lcm is ",sum)
print("the gcd is ",hum)

Q14. WAP using spyder IDE. Use math library. Try to find log of zero. Which error is given ? Also try to find square root of any negative number. What error is give?
   import math
   print(math.log(0))
   print(math.sqrt(-25))
   error =  ValueError: math domain error
Q15.WAP to create a variable v1 and store any number. Find the square root of that number by using v1 in math.sqrt() function.   
   
import math
 v1 = int(input("Enter the num"))
 sum=(math.sqrt(v1))
 print("the num is = ",sum)
    
Q16. Check where .pyc files are stored after you run the program for
     The .pyc files are stored in the same directory as the corresponding .py files, and have the same name as the .
     py files, except with a .pyc extension instead of .py
    














 